Transferring files via Bluetooth: 
1.	On the computer, right click on the bluetooth status bar icon, and click add device.
2.	Locate the desired device and continue to add a phone.
3.	On the computer, right click on the bluetooth status bar icon and click receive a file. A box should pop up saying wait for a connection
4.	On the phone, open the default file browser (My files), or other preferred file browser (File Exporer).
5.	Locate the scoutdata.txt file in the root of the device storage (All files, then typically SD memory card).
6.	Press and hold the file to bring up a dialogue box with sharing options, click share via. 
7.	Click the Bluetooth share option. When a list of computers shows up, check for one named WINUSER-PC, and click on it.
8.	On the computer, a file named scoutdata.txt should be waiting to transfer. By location, click on browse, and navigate to Desktop=>frclient, then click okay.
9.	Click finish to start the file transfer. In the frclient folder, double check that the file exists.
10.	Then follow steps in converting the data. 

Transferring files via USB: 
1.	Connect the device via USB.
2.	On the device, enable MTP sharing from the notification center (swipe down from top, USB sharing options, tap the checkbox) 
3.	On the computer, open my computer (Start => Computer) and wait for the device to show up 
4.	Click on the phone and navigate to the location of the scoutdata.txt file (typically in the SD Card folder)
5.	Copy the file to the frclient folder on the desktop. 
6.	Then follow steps in converting the data. 

Converting the data: 
1.	Once the data file has been transferred from the device, click on the file named csv.pl (which is a perl script), to convert the data to a machine readable format.  
2.	Copy the scoutdata.txt to the scoutdata folder, and rename it according to the scout’s name (e.g., Sunny.txt). 
3.	Repeat above steps to copy every scout’s data to the folder, repeating until done

Merge/opening the data in Tableau:
1.	Once all scouts have synced their data, click on the program concat (of Windows Batch File type) to merge all data into the out.csv file.
2.	Open Tableau by clicking on the desktop icon, and select open file. 

